---
layout: post
title: "Service"
date: 2012-02-14 18:10
---

Before I left work this afternoon I thought I'd try a different barber closer to my new office. I checked online and discovered there wasn't one as close as what I'd hoped so I resolved to just stop in at the same barbershop I've been going to for the last couple of years.

When I got there the "closed" sign was hanging. I looked at the opening hours on the door: "Mon-Fri 8am to 5:30pm". I looked at my bike computer: 5:14pm. I got the attention of someone inside and asked what was going on. She said it takes them 15 minutes to clean and they won't start on someone in the last 15 minutes. I tried to talk her around. She was steadfast.

This pissed me off and I [vented on Twitter](http://twitter.com/jimwhimpey/status/169321194183593984):

> My hair takes 15-20 minutes to cut. I've been going to that barber for years. Not anymore.

I got a [couple](http://twitter.com/freshtonic/status/169327784727023616) of [responses](http://twitter.com/kondro/status/169322614198767616) suggesting it's a bit drastic to cut ties considering I've been going there so long.

The fact I've been going there so long is another reason they should have served me. Would it be so difficult to cut someone's hair 15 minutes *before you close*, clean up around me and stay back 5 or 10 minutes? For someone who's spent hundreds of dollars there over the years?

There's nothing exceptional about this barber and for me, barbers are interchangable. There's literally 20 options a short distance from work and home. There's nothing at all tying me to my regular barber, they're simply one of many very similar options. Serving me after they'd turned the sign (even though it was 15 minutes before closing) may have created a tie. Instead they've given me a great reason to choose someone else.